## PROCESS DOCUMENTATION ##

**9/30/19 - Initial Setup**
Following the prototype from Chapters 30 and 31 from Bond's Intro to Game Design, Prototyping, and Development, I got the base framework for a functional SHUMP in place. A hero ship can move around using WASD and shoot at various enemies with multiple weapon times. Picking up power ups gives the hero new weapons or shield upgrades, and can have up to 5 weapons of the same type. Right now the game is a vertical scroller more or less, but I want to make it more exploratory like Asteroids. This also means modifying enemy behaviors to account for the new playstyle.

My initial brainstorming for this project was more geared towards creating an Area 51 themed side scroller in which aliens must escape the facility. While I liked that theme a lot, the idea focuses more on aesthetics rather than mechanics. I want to make a more engaging game than just "Shoot the enemies in front of you." To achieve this my game will focus on the puzzles and combat in a (partially) procedurally generated level. The overall objective will be geared towards destroying enemy bases and solving minor puzzles to actually reach those bases. The game will also have the added challenge of having to dodge/shoot large asteroids, which have a small potential to drop powerups and will be randomly generated around the level.

Another big mechanic I want to implement is the cooperative element of having two hero ships tethered together, each with their own abilities and responsibilities. A "Hub" ship will control navigation using WASD and have "weapons" like a shield and some bombs. Meanwhile, another "Shooter" ship is capable of moving around and shooting the enemies using the mouse, but can't go beyond a certain distance from the hub it is attached to. To simplify combat, the ship will always shoot away from the hub and can move through the ship's shield (which only blocks enemy projectiles as well).

There is a lot of adjustments and additions that I need to make to the base prototype from the book. Most importantly is the behavior of the hero ship(s) and enemies, followed by a restructuring of the actual world to be more of an exploratory, top-down shooter as opposed to a static side-scroller. I also need to generate lots of asteroid prefabs and code their behavior; these ought to be anchored to an empty game object in the hierarchy to help with organization. Finally, I need to plan out how to implement enemy bases and their respective puzzles. The puzzles will likely consist of shooting switches in a specific order or with certain weapons. The bases, on the other hand, will act as a more complex enemy subclass that will need its own behavior for spawning enemies and projectiles.

**10/9/19**
The most important change I've made to the shmup was the Hero ships themselves. Originally, only one ship moved in four directions and could only shoot straight up. Now, a hub ship controls navigation while a separate ship circles the hub's perimeter based on the mouse position. The hero (shooter) ship shoots by clicking the left mouse button, and the hub can even fire projectiles as well with the space bar. I still want to restrict access to certain weapons, so each ship has their own responsibilites and tactics (for instance, only the hub can fire missiles or only the ship can fire the blaster). Both ships have their own instances of shield and I intend to make it that one ship can continue playing even after the other is destroyed. Eventually, I'll add a "Power Up" which brings back the lost ship to resume the original gameplay.

At this point I've made it so the game is played in a 2D space rather than the restricted verticle-scroller that the original prototype was built around. Background layers simulate a parallax background affect by moving stars in the foreground in relation to the player's X,Y coordinate. The boundaries of the game have expanded to a 200 by 200 square area in which enemies and asteroids are randomly generated.

Asteroids have their own unique behaviors of splitting into two smaller asteroids by instantiating smaller prefabs upon being destroyed. Like enemies, asteroids have the potential to drop weapons and shields when completely destroyed and will deal damage to the player when they collide. I still need to modify enemy behaviors to suit the needs of the level's design, but for now the asteroids serve as interesting targets to shoot at.

Regarding the overall level design, I want to make it more metroid-like in that certain weapon types are required to open doors and passageways. I still want to add enemy bases to facilitate enemy spawning and fire additional projectiles at the hero ship. Destroying these bases is currently the game's main objective and at some point I might add a time limit (or fuel tank) to create an extra sense of urgency while exploring the level.
